NDS Labs
========

What's In The Box?
------------------

This is the main repository for the NDS Labs initiative, which is a part of the
broader National Data Service (nationaldataservice.org) effort.

NDSLabs is designed to be an experimental space for developing services and
exploring interoperability between services.  Currently, it *only* works on
Openstack clusters.

Inside this repo you will find:

 * Dockerfiles for building docker images that can serve as the building blocks
   for data services
 * Servicefiles that manage the lifecycle of services running on a cluster
 * Methods for launching an "NDSLabs" cluster based on CoreOS and Fleet

The individual dockerfiles have been constructed to be as generic as possible,
with information provided to them via environment variables specified at
launch.  (And sane defaults in advance of that.)  In some cases this increases
their startup time, but allows them to be flexible in deployment and
utilization.

Requirements
------------

Starting your own NDSLabs cluster requires that you have access to:

 * An Openstack cluster and its API endpoint
 * An installation of fleet ( https://github.com/coreos/fleet )
 * This repository

Getting Started
---------------

See the file called LAUNCHING

The rough outline for getting started with a pre-built cluster of NDS Labs
containers is as follows:

 1. Import the CoreOS images into Glance as per instructions at coreos.com
 2. Read over the output of:
    $ python2.7 startup_ndslabs.py --help
 3. Run the startup script with the appropriate options.
 4. Spawn the appropriate servicefiles using fleetctl:
    $ cd servicefiles
    $ fleetctl load *.{mount,service}
    $ fleetctl start *.{mount,service}

Each of the options to startup_ndslabs.py is documented.  A typical invocation
will specify Openstack volumes to mount, the SSH key to use, a name, and a
public IP address.

Where to Get Help
-----------------

There are a few ways to get help for getting up and running.  The first is
through the NDS discussion mailing list, discuss@nationaldataservice.org.  Only
subscribers can post; to subscribe, email majordomo@nationaldataservice.org
with the contents "subscribe discuss".

The second way is through IRC.  On chat.freenode.net in the channel
\#ndslabs, folks are often idling and able to respond to questions with
some delay.


What's Next?
------------

Once you have started up the cluster, you are now able to create new docker
files that interoperate with existing services.  (See the list of services
below for more information.)  These can be spawned using servicefiles.

All services, docker images and service files are designed to be nearly
completely configurable at time of first instantiation by environment
variables.  If they are backed by a persistent container (or linked to a
persistent database container) they should restart cleanly with existing
configuration.

List of Services
----------------

Below are the services currently included.  To inspect which environment
variables they take, examine the dockerfile for ENV lines.

 * busybox
 * docker-registry-frontend
 * docker-registry
 * irods-icat
 * irods-idrop2
 * irods-rest
 * kallithea
 * moinmoin
 * nginx
 * owncloud
 * postgres-icat
 * postgres-owncloud
 * proxy
 * rabbitmq-server
 * rstudio
 * webserve
 * ytwebapp
 * scidrive (planned, not yet implemented)

Each service can be disabled using *fleetctl*:
 
 $ fleetctl stop proxy.service
 $ fleetctl destroy proxy.service

Special Services
----------------

Some services are templated to allow for special use cases.  The most prominent
of these is the webserve service, which is designed to spin up any
appropriately named docker image.  This is to make it extremely easy to serve
static content.  For an example of how to do this, see the nds-explorer
Dockerfile (which builds a dist.tar.gz and inserts it into the dockerfile);
this service can be spawned by executing

 $ fleetctl start webserve@nds-explorer.service

This will feed the portion of the name between the @ symbol and the . into the
servicefile as %i.  It then downloads the image nds-labs/%i , executes it, and
sets up an http proxy from the public IP address to the appropriate internal IP
address.  At the public IP, under the suburl nds-explorer, it will now serve
the content of that container.

Configuration Variables
-----------------------

Below is a selection of environment variables that relate to configuration
settings for the services.  Not all will need to be changed; in fact, at a bare
minimum, none of them need to be changed.

To change an environment variable, modify the contents of
docker-launcher/production.env .

 * IRODS_DATADIR defaults to /tempZone/home/rods/data .  What is the location,
   in iRODS-space, of the data to be made available?
 * irodspassword defaults to testpassword and is the password for the irods
   postgres database.
 * irodsresc defaults to defaultResc and is the resource on which files will be
   created, by default.
 * irodszone defaults to tempZone and is the iRODS Zone to be used.
 * kemail defaults to nn@your.kallithea.server and is the email address
   Kallithea will use for logging and reporting.
 * keyforagent defaults to temp_32_byte_key_for_agent__conn and is the key used
   in the iRODS setup.
 * kpass defaults to simple_password and is the administrative password for
   Kallithea.
 * localzonesid defaults to TEMP_LOCAL_ZONE_SID and is the zone SID for iRODS
   setup.
 * owncloudpassword defaults to testpassword and is the password for admin on
   ownCloud.
 * ytfidopassword defaults to 3nthr0py and is the password for the ytfido user
   account on iRODS.
